documents/TypeScript-and-Dojo2.md, before:

# TypeScript and Dojo 2

## TypeScript Roadmap Items

The following table lists TypeScript roadmap items or issues that are of interest to Dojo 2.

|Item|Version|Issue|Reason|
|----|-------|-----|------|
|`async`/`await` down levelling|2.1|[Microsoft/TypeScript#1664](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/issues/1664)|This is a significant challenge for supporting non-ES6+ environments with Dojo 2|
|Variadic Kinds|2.1|[Microsoft/TypeScript#5453](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/issues/5453)|Currently, there are use cases in [dojo/compose](https://github.com/dojo/compose) where aggregating types is necessary|
|Generic rest/spread|*?*|[Microsoft/TypeScript#10727](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/issues/10727)|While not currently tagged to a release, generic rest/spread is part of the path to variadic kinds, which will solve most of our use cases around `dojo/compose`|
|Ambient Decorators|2.1|[Microsoft/TypeScript#2900](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/issues/2900)|For [dojo/compose](https://github.com/dojo/compose) the ability to programatically access typing information is important|
|Conditional Decorators|2.1|[Microsoft/TypeScript#3538](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/issues/3538)|Essentially allows the equivilent of the Dojo `has()` API built into TypeScript|
|ES8 Object property spread/rest|2.1|[Microsoft/TypeScript#2103](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/issues/2103)|Set to be ratified in ES8, this will be available in TS2.1|
|Support for project references|2.1|[Microsoft/TypeScript#3469](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/issues/3469)|Allow multiple TypeScript only projects/packages to work together without having to use transpiled code|
|Supporting "partial" types|*2.1*|[Microsoft/TypeScript#4889](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/issues/4889)|While the TypeScript team felt that this had a viable workaround, they have realised that it makes it difficult to use some popular libraries and are considering delivering this for 2.1, though it is a backlog item which may get moved|
|Granular Targetting|*?*|[Microsoft/TypeScript#4692](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/issues/4692)|Makes it easier to target specific platforms that might have support for many ES6+ features, this requires [Microsoft/TypeScript#6974](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/issues/6974) first, which is targeted for 2.0|

## Delivered Roadmap Items

The following items have been delivered that have potential impact on Dojo 2:

|Item|Version|Issue|Reason|
|----|-------|-----|------|
|Better Loader Plugin Support|2.0|[Microsoft/TypeScript#6615](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/issues/6615)|This allows us to properly type plugins.|
|Function `this` typing|2.0|[Microsoft/TypeScript#3694](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/issues/3694)|There are several use cases in Dojo where typing `this` within a function will improve code safety|
|Implicit index signatures|2.0|[Microsoft/TypeScript#7029](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/issues/7029)|Several of the Dojo 2 core APIs would benefit from being able to pass object literals without explicitly typing them|
|Read Only Properties|2.0|[Microsoft/TypeScript#6532](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/pull/6532)|Allows specification of interfaces that do not allow property reassignment, which can better refect runtime behaviour|
|"Native UMD"|2.0|[Microsoft/TypeScript#7125](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/issues/7125)|Solves the problem of exporting interfaces for re-importing, hopefully avoiding collisions|
|String Literal Types|1.8|[Microsoft/TypeScript#5185](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/issues/5185)|There are many instances where a string literal type will assist in making Dojo 2 more usable|
|F-Bounded Polymorphism|1.8|[Microsoft/TypeScript#5949](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/issues/5949)|The ability for generics to refer to other generics within the same argument list addresses a couple challenges in Dojo 2|
|Augmenting global type interfaces from within modules|1.8|[Microsoft/TypeScript#4166](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/issues/4166)|There are several instances when we are feature detecting within a module but need to alter the global interface as we shim in functionality|
|`this` based type guards|1.8|[Microsoft/TypeScript#5906](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/issues/5906)|Accepting a polymorphic `this` as a type guard solves some use cases in Dojo 2|

## Uncomitted Issues

The following table lists issues that are important to Dojo 2, but the TypeScript team have yet to commit to them in the roadmap:

|Item|Issue|Reason|
|----|-----|------|
|`this` as a Generic Argument|[Microsoft/TypeScript#6223](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/issues/6223)|Polymorphic `this` is a legitimate way of type guarding on extended/composed classes|
|Programmatically Modifying Types|[Microsoft/TypeScript#4490](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/issues/4490)|Since Mixins are not on the horizon, the ability to programmatically access them is another way of dealing with the problem.  It maybe the ambient decorators will be sufficient to meet this need|
|Mixins/Traits|[Microsoft/TypeScript#311](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/issues/311)|Ability to better support mixin type functionality, the TS team is currently declining because they feel it will conflict with the future of ES|

Commit message:

Update TS roadmap for 2.1, 2.2, 2.3 features, refs #122 (#150)
* Update TS roadmap for 2.1, 2.2, 2.3 features, refs #122

[ci skip]

* Fix ordering of completed items

[ci skip]

* fix typo

[ci skip]

documents/TypeScript-and-Dojo2.md, after:

# TypeScript and Dojo 2

## TypeScript Roadmap Items

The following table lists TypeScript roadmap items or issues that are of interest to Dojo 2.

|Item|Version|Issue|Reason|
|----|-------|-----|------|
|Language Service Plugins|2.3|[Microsoft/TypeScript#12231](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/pull/12231)|Easier to extend TypeScript language services with additional capabilities|
|Variadic Kinds|*?*|[Microsoft/TypeScript#5453](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/issues/5453) and [Microsoft/TypeScript#9366](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/issues/9366)|Currently, there are use cases with mixins where aggregating types is necessary|
|Generic rest/spread|*?*|[Microsoft/TypeScript#10727](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/issues/10727)|While not currently tagged to a release, generic rest/spread is part of the path to variadic kinds|
|Ambient Decorators|*?*|[Microsoft/TypeScript#2900](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/issues/2900)|The ability to programatically access typing information is important|
|Conditional Decorators|*?*|[Microsoft/TypeScript#3538](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/issues/3538)|Essentially allows the equivilent of the Dojo `has()` API built into TypeScript|
|Support for project references|*?*|[Microsoft/TypeScript#3469](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/issues/3469)|Allow multiple TypeScript only projects/packages to work together without having to use transpiled code|
|Granular Targetting|*?*|[Microsoft/TypeScript#4692](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/issues/4692)|Makes it easier to target specific platforms that might have support for many ES6+ features, this requires [Microsoft/TypeScript#6974](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/issues/6974) first, which is targeted for 2.0|

## Delivered Roadmap Items

The following items have been delivered that have potential impact on Dojo 2:

|Item|Version|Issue|Reason|
|----|-------|-----|------|
|Generic type parameters|2.3|[Microsoft/TypeScript#2175](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/issues/2175)|Default values for generic type variables|
[Async iterations and Generator down levelling]|2.3|[Microsoft/TypeScript#12346](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/pull/12346)|This allows us to support non-ES6+|
|Mixins/Traits|2.2|[Microsoft/TypeScript#311](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/issues/311)|2.2|Ability to better support mixin type functionality via [Microsoft/TypeScript#13743](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/pull/13743), [Microsoft/TypeScript#13604](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/pull/13604), [Microsoft/TypeScript#13924](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/issues/13924), and [Microsoft/TypeScript#14017](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/issues/14017)|
|`async`/`await` down levelling|2.1|[Microsoft/TypeScript#1664](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/issues/1664)|This allows us to support non-ES6+ environments with Dojo 2|
|Supporting "partial" types|2.1|[Microsoft/TypeScript#4889](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/issues/4889)|Makes it easier to say that an interface implements some items from another interface|
|ES8 Object property spread/rest|2.1|[Microsoft/TypeScript#2103](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/issues/2103)|Set to be ratified in ES8, this is available in TS2.1|
environments with Dojo 2, as well as ES8 for await of|
|Better Loader Plugin Support|2.0|[Microsoft/TypeScript#6615](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/issues/6615)|This allows us to properly type plugins.|
|Function `this` typing|2.0|[Microsoft/TypeScript#3694](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/issues/3694)|There are several use cases in Dojo where typing `this` within a function will improve code safety|
|Implicit index signatures|2.0|[Microsoft/TypeScript#7029](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/issues/7029)|Several of the Dojo 2 core APIs would benefit from being able to pass object literals without explicitly typing them|
|Read Only Properties|2.0|[Microsoft/TypeScript#6532](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/pull/6532)|Allows specification of interfaces that do not allow property reassignment, which can better refect runtime behaviour|
|"Native UMD"|2.0|[Microsoft/TypeScript#7125](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/issues/7125)|Solves the problem of exporting interfaces for re-importing, hopefully avoiding collisions|
|String Literal Types|1.8|[Microsoft/TypeScript#5185](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/issues/5185)|There are many instances where a string literal type will assist in making Dojo 2 more usable|
|F-Bounded Polymorphism|1.8|[Microsoft/TypeScript#5949](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/issues/5949)|The ability for generics to refer to other generics within the same argument list addresses a couple challenges in Dojo 2|
|Augmenting global type interfaces from within modules|1.8|[Microsoft/TypeScript#4166](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/issues/4166)|There are several instances when we are feature detecting within a module but need to alter the global interface as we shim in functionality|
|`this` based type guards|1.8|[Microsoft/TypeScript#5906](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/issues/5906)|Accepting a polymorphic `this` as a type guard solves some use cases in Dojo 2|


## Uncomitted Issues

The following table lists issues that are important to Dojo 2, but the TypeScript team have yet to commit to them in the roadmap:

|Item|Issue|Reason|
|----|-----|------|
|`this` as a Generic Argument|[Microsoft/TypeScript#6223](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/issues/6223)|Polymorphic `this` is a legitimate way of type guarding on extended/composed classes|
|Programmatically Modifying Types|[Microsoft/TypeScript#4490](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/issues/4490)|Revisit, with mixins being easier to achieve we may not need this|
