README.md, before:

This repository contains common guidelines for writing, committing, and accepting contributions to Dojo 2 packages.

* [Contributing Guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md)
* [Style Guide](STYLE.md)

# Package Statuses

|Package|CI Status|Code Coverage|npm       |
|-------|---------|-------------|----------|
|[dojo/core](https://github.com/dojo/core)|[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/dojo/core.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/dojo/core)|[![codecov.io](http://codecov.io/github/dojo/core/coverage.svg?branch=master)](http://codecov.io/github/dojo/core?branch=master)| |
|[dojo/loader](https://github.com/dojo/loader)|[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/dojo/loader.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/dojo/loader)|[![codecov.io](http://codecov.io/github/dojo/loader/coverage.svg?branch=master)](http://codecov.io/github/dojo/loader?branch=master)|[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/dojo-loader.svg)](http://badge.fury.io/js/dojo-loader)|
|[dojo/dom](https://github.com/dojo/dom)|[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/dojo/dom.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/dojo/dom)|[![codecov.io](http://codecov.io/github/dojo/dom/coverage.svg?branch=master)](http://codecov.io/github/dojo/dom?branch=master)| |
|[dojo/parser](https://github.com/dojo/parser)|[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/dojo/parser.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/dojo/parser)|[![codecov.io](http://codecov.io/github/dojo/parser/coverage.svg?branch=master)](http://codecov.io/github/dojo/parser?branch=master)| |
|[dojo/compose](https://github.com/dojo/compose)|[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/dojo/compose.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/dojo/compose)|[![codecov.io](http://codecov.io/github/dojo/compose/coverage.svg?branch=master)](http://codecov.io/github/dojo/compose?branch=master)| |
|[dojo/i18n](https://github.com/dojo/i18n)|[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/dojo/i18n.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/dojo/i18n)|[![codecov.io](http://codecov.io/github/dojo/i18n/coverage.svg?branch=master)](http://codecov.io/github/dojo/i18n?branch=master)| |
|[dojo/routing](https://github.com/dojo/routing)|[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/dojo/routing.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/dojo/routing)|[![codecov.io](http://codecov.io/github/dojo/routing/coverage.svg?branch=master)](http://codecov.io/github/dojo/routing?branch=master)| |
|[dojo/crypto](https://github.com/dojo/crypto)|[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/dojo/crypto.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/dojo/crypto)|[![codecov.io](http://codecov.io/github/dojo/crypto/coverage.svg?branch=master)](http://codecov.io/github/dojo/crypto?branch=master)| |

Commit message:

Update README, add tslint.json

README.md, after:

# dojo-meta

This repository contains information regarding Dojo 2 that crosses package boundries.

# Guidelines and Style Guide

There are several documents that are relevent for contributing to Dojo 2.

* [Contributing Guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md) - Guidelines for contributing code (or documentation) to Dojo 2
* [Style Guide](STYLE.md) - The style guide for Dojo 2.
* [tslint.json](tslint.json) - The configuration file [tslint](http://palantir.github.io/tslint/) that is used to validate Dojo 2 code against

# Packages

There are several packages that makeup the Dojo 2 platform.

## Status

The following tables contain status information for the packages:

|Package|CI Status|Code Coverage|npm       |
|-------|---------|-------------|----------|
|[dojo/core](https://github.com/dojo/core)|[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/dojo/core.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/dojo/core)|[![codecov.io](http://codecov.io/github/dojo/core/coverage.svg?branch=master)](http://codecov.io/github/dojo/core?branch=master)| |
|[dojo/loader](https://github.com/dojo/loader)|[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/dojo/loader.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/dojo/loader)|[![codecov.io](http://codecov.io/github/dojo/loader/coverage.svg?branch=master)](http://codecov.io/github/dojo/loader?branch=master)|[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/dojo-loader.svg)](http://badge.fury.io/js/dojo-loader)|
|[dojo/dom](https://github.com/dojo/dom)|[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/dojo/dom.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/dojo/dom)|[![codecov.io](http://codecov.io/github/dojo/dom/coverage.svg?branch=master)](http://codecov.io/github/dojo/dom?branch=master)| |
|[dojo/parser](https://github.com/dojo/parser)|[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/dojo/parser.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/dojo/parser)|[![codecov.io](http://codecov.io/github/dojo/parser/coverage.svg?branch=master)](http://codecov.io/github/dojo/parser?branch=master)| |
|[dojo/compose](https://github.com/dojo/compose)|[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/dojo/compose.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/dojo/compose)|[![codecov.io](http://codecov.io/github/dojo/compose/coverage.svg?branch=master)](http://codecov.io/github/dojo/compose?branch=master)| |
|[dojo/i18n](https://github.com/dojo/i18n)|[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/dojo/i18n.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/dojo/i18n)|[![codecov.io](http://codecov.io/github/dojo/i18n/coverage.svg?branch=master)](http://codecov.io/github/dojo/i18n?branch=master)| |
|[dojo/routing](https://github.com/dojo/routing)|[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/dojo/routing.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/dojo/routing)|[![codecov.io](http://codecov.io/github/dojo/routing/coverage.svg?branch=master)](http://codecov.io/github/dojo/routing?branch=master)| |
|[dojo/crypto](https://github.com/dojo/crypto)|[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/dojo/crypto.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/dojo/crypto)|[![codecov.io](http://codecov.io/github/dojo/crypto/coverage.svg?branch=master)](http://codecov.io/github/dojo/crypto?branch=master)| |
